---
layout: page
title: CV
permalink: /cv/
css_class: page cv
---

Polyglot full stack hands-on architect with 15+ years of working experience.
Automation, testing, continuous delivery, infrastructure as code, microservices.

## Timeline

<div class="timeline">
  <div class="lane years">
    <div>1998</div>
    <div>1999</div>
    <div>2000</div>
    <div>2001</div>
    <div>2002</div>
    <div>2003</div>
    <div>2004</div>
    <div>2005</div>
    <div>2006</div>
    <div>2007</div>
    <div>2008</div>
    <div>2009</div>
    <div>2010</div>
    <div>2011</div>
    <div>2012</div>
    <div>2013</div>
    <div>2014</div>
    <div>2015</div>
    <div>2016</div>
    <div>2017</div>
    <div>2018</div>
    <div>2019</div>
  </div>
  <div class="lane study">
    <a href="#education" class="ntua">NTUA</a>
  </div>
  <div class="lane work">
    <a href="#agoranet-sa--junior-software-engineer" class="agoranet">AgoraNet</a>
    <a href="#erational-sa--software-engineer" class="eraise">eRational</a>
    <a href="#knowledge--database-systems-laboratory--software-engineer" class="kdbsl">KDBSL</a>
    <a href="#institute-for-the-management-of-information-systems--software-engineer" class="imis">IMIS</a>
    <a href="#hinttech--senior-software-engineer" class="hinttech">HintTech</a>
    <a href="#emakina--senior-software-engineer" class="emakina">Emakina</a>
    <a href="#bestseller--lead-software-architect" class="bse">Bestseller</a>
    <a href="#suitsupply--technology-lead" class="suitsupply">Suitsupply</a>
    <a href="#ubtech--lead-software-architect" class="ubtech">UBTech</a>
  </div>
</div>

## Working Experience

### UBTech / Lead Software Architect

February 2018 - Present

UBTech started as a tiny startup aiming to improve logistics for everyone: end
consumers, e-commerce shops, carriers. A greenfield project that I was lucky to
design from scratch. I defined the technology stack and designed a microservice
architecture, mapping business capabilities to services, enabling developers to
get onboard fast and deliver results. A small startup brings many
responsibilities and roles, so I also implemented services in Java and frontend
in Angular, designed the REST API of the platform, implemented continuous
delivery pipelines, including Terraform for automated infrastructure and custom
tooling. In later stages, we took up the challenge of integrating with legacy
monolithic systems and untangle them in order to deliver one unified
multi-tenant platform.

AWS, Azure, Terraform, Docker, Kubernetes, Helm, Java / Maven / Spring Boot,
Angular, Python, Swagger/OpenAPI, Kafka, ElasticSearch, microservices, event
sourcing, monolith decomposition, multi-tenant platform.

[Top]

### Suitsupply / Technology Lead

September 2017 - January 2018

Worked with the webshop team in the Salesforce Commerce Cloud (formerly known as
Demandware) implementation of the storefront. Introduced unit testing in all
storefront teams. Worked on improving the continuous delivery pipeline.

Later joined the newly formed platform team, with the purpose of enabling other
teams to deliver. Implemented new continuous integration pipelines and related
tooling on Bamboo and TeamCity, with deployments on Kubernetes with Helm.

[Top]

### BESTSELLER / Lead Software Architect

January 2015 - July 2017

Initially involved with BESTSELLER as external consultant, after BESTSELLER
moved from Aarhus to Amsterdam, I was offered the role of the architect.
Demandware development, migration from svn to git, automating manual tasks and
thinking about systems' responsibilities and what can be done better.

Mid-late 2015, the big rewrite of our websites. As the architect, I was
responsible for coordinating the project from a technical point of view in every
phase, from design until implementation. Coached developers about best practices
not often used in the Demandware ecosystem but also making sure they deliver
work according to our high standards. Developed the continuous delivery
pipeline, from writing the code until deploying to production, working around
inherent limitations of the Demandware platform. Static code analysis, unit
tests, integration tests, code coverage, all with the new Demandware JavaScript
controllers engine.

JavaScript, nodeJS, mocha, istanbul, grunt, webdriverIO, ESLint, CI/CD, Jenkins,
Bamboo Cloud, TeamCity, best practices, mentoring junior/medior developers.

Having successfully lead the technical effort of stabilizing the frontend, I was
transferred to the backend team to repeat the challenge there. Gave team focus
and technical guidance to make the right decisions. Created technical roadmap
and cataloged technical debt for dealing with legacy monolith application.
Microservices design and CI best practices. Organized hackathon sessions to
build up team knowledge levels.

Java, Maven, Spring Boot, Docker, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, AWS SNS, AWS SQS,
Apache Kafka.

[Top]

### Emakina / Senior Software Engineer

November 2011 - December 2014

Worked as a developer and technical lead in multiple CMS and eCommerce projects.
Clients include: Greenpeace, Reed Business Media (Elsevier), Suitsupply,
Rituals, AutoNL, Varova fashion, Sundio Group. Main technologies: EPiServer,
Demandware, .NET. (Note: when I first joined, the company was named Relephant).

[Top]

### HintTech / Senior Software Engineer

August 2008 - November 2011

Worked as a developer in multiple CMS and custom code projects. Main
technologies: .NET, SDL Tridion CMS. The most interesting project was migrating
the legacy VB6/COM core of the Tridion CMS into .NET 3.5.

[Top]

### Institute for the Management of Information Systems / Software Engineer

May 2007 - August 2008

Implemented custom .NET projects (ASP.NET, IIS, MSSQL) to support various
initiatives of the ministry of education (e.g. DesTinPsifiaka, a platform
offering discounts to students purchasing laptops on the store of their
selection).

[Top]

### Knowledge & Database Systems Laboratory / Software Engineer

March 2005 - May 2007 (part time)

I worked part time at the Knowledge & Database Systems Laboratory of the
National Technical University of Athens. We developed a custom CMS solution
(COMMET: COntent Management MEthodologies and Tools) (classic ASP, ASP.NET, IIS,
MSSQL). We also implemented and supported COMMET in various projects in the
university.

Additionally, we implemented custom .NET websites to support various initiatives
of the ministry of education (e.g. DIODOS - a portal where students could apply
for cheaper internet).

[Top]

### eRational S.A. / Software Engineer

2003 - 2004

Developed an e-learning platform named eRaise (Java, JSP, MySQL). I worked on
frontend and backend, including database design.

[Top]

### AgoraNet S.A. / Junior Software Engineer

2000 - 2001

I developed single-handedly for AgoraNet an application called “Ermis” (Hermes).
It was a VB6/Access desktop application for managing retail clothing shops.

[Top]

## Education

National Technical University of Athens / Electrical and Computer Engineer

1998 - 2004

[Top]

## Certifications

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>
            2017
        </td>
        <td>
            AWS Certified Developer - Associate Level
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            2016
        </td>
        <td>
            Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 8 Programmer
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            2014
        </td>
        <td>
            Microsoft Certified Solutions Developer - Web Applications
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            2013
        </td>
        <td>
            Demandware Developer
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
            2011
        </td>
        <td>
            MCPD ASP.NET Developer 3.5
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

[Top]

[top]: #timeline
