---
layout: post
title: The social experiment of public transport
date: 2011-11-26 07:52:00.000000000 +01:00
published: true
tags:
  - funny
---

Last night I was going home with the bus. A small child, probably around 2-3
years old was crying really loud, laying on the ground at the feet of his
mother. That woman was also young, less than 30 years old, and didn't react to
the child's non stop crying, probably because she didn't want to spoil him (or
maybe she didn't care, who knows). Well the child was crying his heart out
louder and louder so after 2-3 minutes of that, some guy who was standing close
by screamed really loud at the baby! Everybody in the bus turned around to see
what's going on.

Well, the baby stopped crying. In fact, it didn't cry at all until when they
left the bus and I would say the bus became totally quiet altogether. The bus
driver said something in Dutch in his microphone for everybody to listen but I
don't know what he said.

I think in the end people buy cars just to put an end to this social experiment
also known as public transport. Babies crying, people shouting, music too loud,
pants too low, people smoking at your face, nobody ever complains, until they
break and go buy either a car or a teaser gun.

In Greece people have this stereotype regarding western Europeans that "they
follow all the rules". Well, that's definitely not the case with the Dutch
people. When I take the ferry to work, there's a nice sign for the motorbikes
asking them to turn them off before they come on board. Guess what. Unless
there's a security person there, which rarely is, nobody turns the bikes off.
It's the tiny rules. It takes a while to notice it, especially if you come from
a place where people park their cars on the sidewalk all the time. This was
brought to my attention for the first time by a colleague from South Africa.
When I had told her "but the Dutch people follow the rules in general" in a
similar conversation she totally disagreed and told me to observe them and I
would see she's right.

From what I've heard, I would say the problem begins here in schools. I've heard
that in Dutch schools kids are allowed to be as free as they want, to behave
bad, even be informal, or even impolite, towards their teachers. I've heard
about this twice in my Dutch course. If it's true then I would assume it's a bit
difficult after that to realize that there are other people around you and
you're supposed to think about your actions. What kind of a discipline does a
person have that lights up a cigarette right by a sign that says "no smoking"
and for a ferry ride that lasts 5 minutes top? And why doesn't anyone ever
complain to this type of behavior?
