---
layout: post
title: Greeks in space!
date: 2011-02-27 10:41:00.000000000 +01:00
published: true
tags:
  - notes
  - personal
---

I just got a video from an event in Paris that shows the Greek vice president of
the government [*] been kicked out by several Greek protesters. A few days ago,
in Berlin, the Greek prime minister had also troubles with Greek demonstrators
that interrupted his speech. I think the one place Greeks haven't demonstrated
yet is... space!

I'm trying to put myself in the place of some German guy that went to listen to
the Greek prime minister giving out his nice speech and suddenly all hell breaks
loose. People shouting in Greek, raising banners and throwing pamphlets out of
nowhere. It's got to be a big surprise for the poor foreign person.

On the other hand, protesting in Greece is often equally surprising to most of
the people. Usually people get informed only by the TV media that hide away (or
censor if you like) the reasons why people protest or even the protests
altogether. In Paris for example, the reason was the hunger strike of 300
immigrants in Greece that's been going on for more than 30 days now. In a
certain small city close to Athens, ordinary people of all age have been
clashing with riot police for about two months now in complete and deafening
silence from the Greek media. So my point is that when it comes to Greece,
protesting abroad is the same as protesting in Greece: most of the time nobody
has a clue on what the protest is about. And most of the time, nobody cares.

At least protesting abroad has an extra advantage: it takes place far away from
the reach of the Greek police and its usual practices (framing people, attacking
people, etc). No foreign cop will start tear-gasing people who are just
shouting. So it's safer! Hm... maybe protesting in space isn't such a bad idea
after all. It achieves the same results it would achieve if it would be done
back home, plus you don't risk getting sent to the hospital or jail.

At the risk of extending this post to any analysis of Greek politics, here's a
video from the Muppet Show Pigs in Space that gave the inspiration for the title
of this post.

And since we're headed for space anyway, we can adapt the legendary Star Trek
line:

"these are the protests of the Greeks. Their mission, to boldly protest where no
man has protested before!"

[*] so it's like his only superior is the prime minister.
